proposed.md, before:

# Proposals/plans for pygrunt #

## FileSets ##

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30

These would act pretty much like lists, except a bit more clever and specialized for files. You
can index and iterate them the same way. FileSets store Path objects, have `add` and `remove`
methods to manipulate contents and don't store the same file twice. Also, important, they are
**unordered**.

A variant of this class would be the DirectorySet.

These classes would be used in the Project class to store source files, include- and library
directories.

## Projects ##

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30
> Note: this doesn't include compound projects

Instead of writing a function to build the whole project, the Project class could do this
in a smarter way.

Each project would take a bunch of source files and produce a binary. This binary could be either
an executable or a library. Optionally, it could install the resulting binary to the compiler's
appropriate directory.

Projects would have different stages:
 1. **Gather** - add source files and other dependencies  
 2. **Validate** - check dependencies, do other validations
 3. **Preprocess** - configure headers, generate code as necessary
 4. **Compile** - produce binary
 5. **Install** - optional, copy the resulting binary to compiler or to user-supplied location

Each stage corresponds to a function in the Project class. This class would be subclassed by the
user, overriding each stage.

These stages could be overridden or straight up skipped through a more generic BarebonesProject
class.

### Stage hooks ###

Optionally, hooks could be added to the project's stages. These are basically Python's decorators:
they get the stage function and get called instead of the actual stage.

This is an easy way to hook into the gather stage and sanitize, or hook into the compile stage
and load/save the recompile cache as necessary.

### Compound Projects ###

If a project produces multiple binaries that may even depend on eachother, a CompoundProject
can be used to combine them. The CompoundProject will try to run through its stages in a smarter
way, for example if two projects share source files, don't compile those twice.

The CompoundProject would maintain an **ordered** list of Projects to run.

### Running pygrunt scripts ###

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30

Not sure how would this be useful, but a runner function might be fun.

The idea is to support simple functions and Project subclasses as well. The runner function would
take a module- or filename, import it and look for a build attribute. If it's a function then
just run it, if it's a variable then see if it's a project and try to run it.

Also add an executable for this runner. So, technically, there would be now two ways to build
a project:

```
py glwrap.py
pygrunt glwrap
```

## Platforms ##

> This feature was added in 0.2.0

Add a platform module, with a base class and separate subclasses for supported platforms. These
platforms would have class methods, firstly to see if the actual platform is the current one.
Other platform-specific functionality could go here as we go on.

The main idea is to replace

``if platform.system() is not 'Windows'``

with

``if not pygrunt.platform.Windows(): ``

The platform classes would also provide help with file name formatting and other system-specific
operations ( like querying path, or possibly even looking up executables on the system )

## Templating ##

Templating is a bit out of scope for this project. There are other libraries to do that ( see
[Jinja](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) ). These libraries could very well be used in Project's
*preprocess* stage.

However, CMake also has its own 'templating' with its configure step. A simple class could
be added to support porting from CMake.

## Options ##

Also a feature heavily inspired by CMake.

Each project could define several options of various kinds, each with reasonable defaults.
When running the script, a command line argument could be passed to skip the entire options
prompt and just use defaults.

Otherwise, a simple console prompt could be presented to the user to manage settings.

### Integrated or separate UI? ###

Writing a prompt as a GUI application or as a console form is a whole project in itself.
To be able to use external tools to configure, pygrunt needs to expose all the options, their
types and defaults. This could easily be done by a command line switch.

After the actual config step, the options would be saved to a previously agreed-upon location,
so pygrunt can use it in the build step.

The separate UI would also mean that by default pygrunt will not prompt the user for options,
it will use the defaults instead.

Commit message:

Added proposal for command line arguments

proposed.md, after:

# Proposals/plans for pygrunt #

## FileSets ##

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30

These would act pretty much like lists, except a bit more clever and specialized for files. You
can index and iterate them the same way. FileSets store Path objects, have `add` and `remove`
methods to manipulate contents and don't store the same file twice. 

A variant of this class would be the DirectorySet.

These classes would be used in the Project class to store source files, include- and library
directories.

## Projects ##

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30

> Note: this only includes the core feature, not the related features in the next chapters

Instead of writing a function to build the whole project, the Project class could do this
in a smarter way.

Each project would take a bunch of source files and produce a binary. This binary could be either
an executable or a library. Optionally, it could install the resulting binary to the compiler's
appropriate directory.

Projects would have different stages:
 1. **Gather** - add source files and other dependencies  
 2. **Validate** - check dependencies, do other validations
 3. **Preprocess** - configure headers, generate code as necessary
 4. **Compile** - produce binary
 5. **Install** - optional, copy the resulting binary to compiler or to user-supplied location

Each stage corresponds to a function in the Project class. This class would be subclassed by the
user, overriding each stage.

These stages could be overridden or straight up skipped through a more generic BarebonesProject
class.

### Stage hooks ###

Optionally, hooks could be added to the project's stages. These are basically Python's decorators:
they get the stage function and get called instead of the actual stage.

This is an easy way to hook into the gather stage and sanitize, or hook into the compile stage
and load/save the recompile cache as necessary.

### Compound Projects ###

If a project produces multiple binaries that may even depend on eachother, a CompoundProject
can be used to combine them. The CompoundProject will try to run through its stages in a smarter
way, for example if two projects share source files, don't compile those twice.

The CompoundProject would maintain an **ordered** list of Projects to run.

## Running pygrunt scripts ##

> This feature has been added before v0.0.30

Not sure how would this be useful, but a runner function might be fun.

The idea is to support simple functions and Project subclasses as well. The runner function would
take a module- or filename, import it and look for a build attribute. If it's a function then
just run it, if it's a variable then see if it's a project and try to run it.

Also add an executable for this runner. So, technically, there would be now two ways to build
a project:

```
py glwrap.py
pygrunt glwrap
```

**Note:** Building projects by simply running the Python scripts is semi-deprecated. Developers
are still free to write their scripts that way, but using the pygrunt command is encouraged.

### Command line arguments ###

These would be caught and processed by the Project class. Later on as more arguments get added,
it will probably make more sense that each module catches its own related command-line arguments
and act accordingly. We'll see.

Some useful arguments:
 * --clear: Clear output directory  
 * --clear-cache: Clear recompile cache
 * --expose-options: Print data about project options

## Platforms ##

> This feature was added in 0.2.0

Add a platform module, with a base class and separate subclasses for supported platforms. These
platforms would have class methods, firstly to see if the actual platform is the current one.
Other platform-specific functionality could go here as we go on.

The main idea is to replace

``if platform.system() is not 'Windows'``

with

``if not pygrunt.platform.Windows(): ``

The platform classes would also provide help with file name formatting and other system-specific
operations ( like querying path, or possibly even looking up executables on the system )

## Templating ##

Templating is a bit out of scope for this project. There are other libraries to do that ( see
[Jinja](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) ). These libraries could very well be used in Project's
*preprocess* stage.

However, CMake also has its own 'templating' with its configure step. A simple class could
be added to support porting from CMake.

## Options ##

Also a feature heavily inspired by CMake.

Each project could define several options of various kinds, each with reasonable defaults.
When running the script, a command line argument could be passed to skip the entire options
prompt and just use defaults.

Otherwise, a simple console prompt could be presented to the user to manage settings.

### Integrated or separate UI? ###

Writing a prompt as a GUI application or as a console form is a whole project in itself.
To be able to use external tools to configure, pygrunt needs to expose all the options, their
types and defaults. This could easily be done by a command line switch.

After the actual config step, the options would be saved to a previously agreed-upon location,
so pygrunt can use it in the build step.

The separate UI would also mean that by default pygrunt will not prompt the user for options,
it will use the defaults instead.
